Timestamp	submitter	submitter_email	lesson_title	authors_institutions	corresponding_author	abstract	keywords	student_prereq_coursework	student_prereq_computer	inst_requirements	instruction_time_minutes	team_work	lesson_addons	tags_science	tags_math	tags_bioinformatics	competencies_niblse	websites_databases	software_requirements	software_challenges
6/3/19 0:14	Jason Williams - Test	williams@cshl.edu	Sequence processing and quality control	"Mark P Peterson, Juniata College Jacob T Malloy, Juniata College Vincent P Buonaccorsi, Juniata College James H Marden, Viterbo University"	williams@cshl.edu	"Next-generation sequencing is radically changing the study of biology, but there are currently few resources aimed at teaching the required laboratory and data-analysis skills to undergraduate students. This gap is especially true at primarily undergraduate institutions, where even the faculty are likely to encounter barriers related to funding, equipment, and training needed to begin research or teaching of sequencing and the associated bioinformatics. For this reason, the GCAT-SEEK network has been developed to provide training, data, and teaching materials specifically geared for general biology undergraduates and their instructors. This lesson plan was created to teach RNA-Seq analysis as a part of that effort. It is provided here, both in finished form and with the modifiable source code, to allow flexible adaptation to various classroom settings. In addition, we include a relevant tutorial to ease students and faculty into the R statistical environment. The associated materials are directly applicable to both faculty training and classroom settings. We expect implementation of the tutorial to strengthen bioinformatic knowledge and skills for general biology students."	"RNA-Seq, GCAT-SEEK, R, UNIX"	"Advanced biology electives (genetics, bioinformatics, molecular biology, biochemistry, etc.)"	Intermediate: Basic skills listed above + familiarity with Excel	"Basic Computer Lab (Access to laptops/desktops, no large memory or cpu requirements)"	90	Either individual or team work is possible	Sample data sets	"Molecular biology, Genetics"	Distributions	"Data cleaning, Coding/scripting"	"C1. Explain the role of computation and data mining in addressing hypothesis-driven and hypothesis-generating questions within the life sciences, C3. Apply statistical concepts used in bioinformatics, C4. Use bioinformatics tools to examine complex biological problems in evolution, information flow, and other important areas of biology, C7. Use command-line bioinformatics tools and write simple computer scripts"	CyVerse Discovery Environment	"Trimmomatic v. 0.36, FastQC 0.11.8"